>>BEN HANSEN: When you've
been in locations where things
are flying off the wall, where
you've seen people's eyes, kind
of, roll back into
their head, you
understand that you could
be playing with fire.
>>GEORGE NOORY: I'm saying how
did this FBI guy get this show?
>>NOORY: Does anything
scare you about?
>>HANSEN: Marriage
used to scare me.
I'll take a pair of pants,
walking across someone's lawn,
and what is it?
With ET disclosure, we're
dealing with something
that is psychological.
We're talking about
reality shifts.
What happens if it happens
on a Friday afternoon?
I call this the ripping
off the Band-Aid approach.
>>NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Ben Hansen with us, is a
paranormal and UFO researcher,
who lectures on many topics,
including the global impact
of UFO disclosure.
He's also the television host
of "UFO Witness" on the Travel
Channel and Discovery Plus.
Ben, welcome to the program.
>>HANSEN: Thanks, George.
Nice to see you again.
>>NOORY: You're looking
good these days.
>>HANSEN: Well, thank you.
>>NOORY: What's new?
>>HANSEN: A lot.
I mean, the UFO world,
of course, is exploding.
>>NOORY: Huge.
>>HANSEN: Media,
government disclosure,
congressional hearings.
I've seemed to kind of find
myself in the middle of it
right now.
>>NOORY: You were an FBI agent.
How did you get involved
in investigating UFOs?
Are you Fox Mulder?
>>HANSEN: Well, I can say
that what I was doing,
there had nothing to do with
the UFO or paranormal subjects.
Before I went in there, I was
investigating child sex crimes.
>>NOORY: Oh, geez.
That's not easy.
>>HANSEN: Yeah.
So that's kind of--
it's not a happy topic.
That's what my specialty
was and being picked up.
But I could say, it was good.
For the most part, it wasn't
quite what I expected.
So when I made the
transition, I didn't
expect to go into TV at all.
In fact, I was going looking
at law school and other things,
and a TV show idea
was presented to me.
And they didn't have
a concept, though.
They loved the--
>>NOORY: They
loved you, but they
didn't know how to put
you into something, right?
>>HANSEN: Exactly.
So it was unique because
I was able to start
from the beginning, help
them develop the concept.
And we created the
show "Fact or Faked,"
which ran for three seasons.
>>NOORY: And it was a well
done show, by the way.
>>HANSEN: Well, thank you.
>>NOORY: I was a little
envious when I first
saw you do that because you
were a guest on our coast
to coast radio show.
And I'm saying, how did
this FBI guy get this show?
But you did a great job,
and you're doing a great job
with the Travel Channel.
>>HANSEN: Well, thank you.
Thank you.
It's been fun.
I've been lucky,
I guess, to have
so many three actual
full series, everything
from ghost hunting to, now,
"UFO Witness," which is--
>>NOORY: Beautiful.
>>HANSEN: --talking
to UFO witnesses.
I mean, that's the
gist of the concept.
>>NOORY: And there
are many out there.
>>HANSEN: There's a lot.
And I think people now are
seeing that the stigma is
being removed.
You've got the
government telling
the military and pilots
and such that, hey,
it's OK to come forward.
And so, I would say, if I
get back to the hotel now,
I've probably got a
dozen new messages
of people wanting to
tell me their story
and send me videos and photos.
>>NOORY: New people?
>>HANSEN: New people.
Incredible.
From all walks of life.
>>NOORY: Do you get many
calls from military, still?
>>HANSEN: I have had several
emails lately of people.
In fact, I've got a couple
of people who are telling me,
over in the UK, for
example, that they
signed a nondisclosure.
They're not supposed to talk
about this, but they want to.
And I said, well,
hey, I don't want
you to violate anything you're
not supposed to talk about.
But they're feeling
like it's OK now.
They want to come forward.
>>NOORY: They want
to come forward.
>>HANSEN: They've seen
things on deployments.
They've been overseas
and had triangular craft
or other craft, like
following their platoon.
It seems like it's
finally becoming OK.
In fact, Congress
is, hopefully, going
to pass a stipulation in the
new Authorization Act that
will allow whistleblowers, so to
speak, to come forward and not
have any form of
reprisal against them.
>>NOORY: Were you always been
interested in the paranormal,
even when you were an FBI agent?
>>HANSEN: Yes.
In fact, in college,
it was well before
going to work for
the government, where
I had my first experience
and tape recorder
cemetery caught an EVP.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>HANSEN: Full sentence.
It made me really think
there's something to this.
It's technology, I
think, is catching up.
It's not necessarily that I
believed in life after death.
I believed in life
in other worlds.
But the technology
we have now is
starting to be able
to witness for us
and capture the evidence.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
John de Souza been
on the program
before and talked with us
about his investigations
of the paranormal and what
made him decide to do this.
>>JOHN DE SOUZA: I
became an FBI agent
because of my
paranormal experiences
before I even joined the FBI.
When I was a kid, I
had several experiences
of contact observation
experiences
with the UFOs and other
things of that nature.
And that awoken me a
desire to really go further
into becoming a professional
investigator to find out
about these things.
>>NOORY: Did you
think, as an FBI agent,
you're going to be able to
uncover these kinds of stories?
>>DE SOUZA: I really did.
And once I got
there, I found out
that there was a
lot of work being
done on paranormal
themes, on UFOs,
on many areas of the
paranormal, supernatural
that we don't know about today.
>>NOORY: Did you stumble
across the real "X-files?"
>>DE SOUZA: I feel like I did.
And a lot of those
cases are actually
available for people to look at
today at vault.fbi.gov, where
there's a giant tab that
says, unexplained phenomena.
And people can go look
at the cases that,
over the last 60, 70 years,
have been declassified
and are available for
anyone to look at.
>>NOORY: Well, it's interesting.
My career took the
same kind of path
as yours, where, when
I was a young kid,
I wanted to investigate
all these weird stories
and paranormal mysteries.
And I figured, the best
way to do that was to be,
not an FBI agent,
but a broadcaster.
So I went in this field as well.
Now, you're no
longer an FBI agent,
but you're still
investigating the paranormal.
Why didn't you give that up?
>>DE SOUZA: Because when
I left the FBI in 2013,
I knew that I wanted to keep
investigating areas that needed
investigation because
they had so much deception
and cover in them.
And I looked around at politics,
economics, other areas,
but the paranormal, apparently,
has so much deception and cover
that is involved with
this area, that I just
thought, this is where they need
an investigator to penetrate
these truths, to
pierce this veil,
and to get to what's
really going on underneath.
>>NOORY: Ben, we've got to get
your path to cross with John's.
You guys are very
similar in nature.
>>HANSEN: I didn't realize that.
I've seen him at conferences,
and it sounds cliche,
but it was actually
the "X-files"
TV show that was popular
during high school, for me,
that I thought, I know the
"X-files" is not what they say.
It doesn't probably
exist, but it spurred me
towards that path.
>>NOORY: Did you find any
secret files within the FBI
that you can talk about?
>>HANSEN: No, I didn't.
It seems like he has a lot more
experience in getting into that
and seeing.
I do know, like he said,
there are public files,
even back to the
cattle mutilations
that they were heavily
involved in investigating.
>>NOORY: Has your FBI
experience helped you
as a UFO investigator?
>>HANSEN: I think so.
Definitely, with the
interviewing process
and putting a case together
from beginning to end.
>>NOORY: And it gives you more
credibility, too, I think.
>>HANSEN: Well, thank you.
I wouldn't necessarily
disagree with that.
I do think, though,
that some people put
so much emphasis on--
you hear the term a professional
observer, for example.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HANSEN: When
you see an object,
well, you're not trained to
observe things professionally,
or you're not in
this career path.
And I think that's a misnomer
because the average citizen can
tell the difference
between the planet Jupiter
or a large craft hovering
over your backyard.
>>NOORY: Sure.
You would think so.
>>HANSEN: Right?
You would think.
And I think that we
need to be careful
that we don't discount
what the average person can
do in investigating these things
without a credential like that.
>>NOORY: Do you enjoy
investigating these cases?
>>HANSEN: I do.
I never get tired of it.
It's just like when you
think you've seen it all
and done it all, then
something comes along
that just can really
blow your mind.
>>NOORY: Did your ability as
an FBI agent enhance your UFO
investigating?
>>HANSEN: I think,
certainly, in the way
of learning how to ask
questions and to start
a case from beginning
to end, for sure.
One of the things that I
took a personal interest
was in deception
detection, trying
to find out if that person is
actually telling the truth,
embellishing.
And so, when I sit down
now, I get feedback
from a lot of people.
They feel that I'm very open.
I'm easy to talk to, and
they'll share things with you.
And then, you don't
pass judgment on them.
Not yet.
You got to hear the whole story.
>>NOORY: That's right.
Do they know you
were an FBI agent?
>>HANSEN: A lot of people do.
I think because I've been
on TV quite a bit now.
If they look me up, they
can see my background.
>>NOORY: They can
see your background.
>>HANSEN: Yeah.
But other times,
they might just think
that I'm some sort of an actor
or something, which I'm not.
I'm horrible at acting.
>>NOORY: You're
not Brendan Fraser.
>>HANSEN: I've been
accused of that.
No.
But just to sit down with
anyone from all walks of life,
to hear their story,
what I will say,
some of these
abductions, they relate
very similar to some awful,
horrific, sexual crimes
that I've investigated, like--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>HANSEN: --PTSD issues.
That you can see
that the person is
genuinely afraid and
experiencing something
like a sexual assault. And
so, when someone comes to me
and says, oh, well, this
so-and-so person made this
all up, I, sometimes, really
have to disagree and say, look,
we don't know exactly
what may have happened,
but you can look at
the emotional impact
of this person.
Whatever it was--
>>NOORY: And you know something
has happened to this person.
>>HANSEN: Exactly.
Something has severely
traumatized them.
And I think that's important.
>>NOORY: How often are people
coming to you now with,
as you were talking
about, different leads?
Is this ongoing?
>>HANSEN: It's constant.
It's constant.
I put up a website
related to the TV show,
and people go there.
They go to my social
media outlets.
And I try to answer everybody,
but what they want me to do,
sometimes, is confirm, hey, this
photo I took, is this a portal?
Is this a vortex?
>>NOORY: Is it not orb?
What is it?
>>HANSEN: Right.
And there's not much reference,
sometimes, in the photo.
And it's difficult. I don't
charge anybody for it.
>>NOORY: You have to
be the expert, right?
>>HANSEN: Yeah.
It can be overwhelming
sometimes.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in ghost hunting, as
well as UFO hunting?
>>HANSEN: Well, the ghost
hunting started in college,
and it was when "Ghost Hunters,"
the TV show, was not even on.
Yet, there were these
groups recording these EVPs.
And they put them on
the radio and play them.
And I said, well, anyone
could make that up.
So I said come on, guys.
I took my friends, and
we went to a cemetery.
It's Halloween.
Started recording.
Nothing happened.
Went home, played back
two of our recorders
and captured a voice.
>>NOORY: There it was.
>>HANSEN: There it was.
>>NOORY: What did it say?
Do you remember?
>>HANSEN: It said get brother.
>>NOORY: Get brother?
>>HANSEN: And I was
with my two sisters,
and it whispered
into the microphone.
And we knew that voice
wasn't there before.
So I thought, there's
something to this.
I think our
technology is starting
to catch up and be able to
record some of these things.
>>NOORY: Do you know the folks
at the Hollywood Ghost Hunters
by any chance?
>>HANSEN: I do.
Yep, I've seen them.
>>NOORY: Rick McCallum
and those people.
Good people.
>>HANSEN: They are.
>>NOORY: They've been on our
show a lot, our radio show.
>>HANSEN: They've
got a lot of access
to some really cool
places up there in LA.
>>NOORY: Does anything
scare you, Ben?
>>HANSEN: Marriage
used to scare me.
I've been married
now for over 6 years.
And in the paranormal
world, I think
that I try to stay away from
anything that seems demonic
because that is very real.
And there have been
places that I've
been to, such as around
Skinwalker Ranch--
>>NOORY: Does that
make you uncomfortable?
>>HANSEN: Yeah,
because there might
be rules on the other side,
but we don't maybe, perhaps,
understand all the rules.
And when you've
been in locations
where things are flying
off the wall, where you've
seen people's eyes roll
back into their head
and go into a trance,
you understand
that you could be playing
with fire if you don't
know what you're dealing with.
>>NOORY: And you've
stumbled across some Bigfoot
stories, too, haven't you?
>>HANSEN: I have, both
on and off the air.
And Bigfoot is one
that I have not
had my own personal
experience other than being
on a little
expedition in Arizona,
where in the middle
of the night,
we were awakened and recorded
a very, I should say,
primal type of a scream.
It didn't sound human, and
it echoed through the forest.
And I had my night
vision and open up
the bottom slit of the tent to
look out with a night vision.
>>NOORY: Little peering, right?
>>HANSEN: Looked around
and didn't see anything,
but there's been numerous
sightings in this area
that, I think, there is
something to that phenomenon.
>>NOORY: There's
something there?
>>HANSEN: There definitely is.
>>NOORY: What has been your
favorite paranormal anomaly
story?
>>HANSEN: I really
like the very unusual,
the ones that Stan
Friedman used to say,
put it in your grey box.
You don't know
what to do with it.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HANSEN: Right?
>>NOORY: We miss him.
>>HANSEN: We sure do.
And one of the things that
we investigated on TV show
was up in Fresno, and it's
called the nightcrawlers.
We called it that.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HANSEN: Well, think
of a pair of pants,
walking across someone's lawn.
>>NOORY: Without a body?
>>HANSEN: Without a body,
without upper torso.
You just had the pair of pants.
>>NOORY: Just the pants.
>>HANSEN: And you
would have to think,
either this person CGI'd
this, which wasn't likely.
They were not technical
in that aspect.
Or they actually captured
something so unusual
on their DVR, which is
hard, actually, to import.
And what is it?
Is it interdimensional?
Is it ghost?
Is it alien?
Why does it look like this?
So those types of cases
that, really, you've
never heard of before, you've
never heard a context for it,
those ones really perplex me.
>>NOORY: I'll tell
you interesting story
about Stanton Friedman.
You'll really enjoy this.
Back in Detroit,
I'm 21 years old.
I'm a radio reporter.
He's my first radio interview.
I saw a little clipping in
the Detroit News that said,
UFOlogist and nuclear
physicists Stanton Friedman is
coming to speak to a
university about UFOs.
And I wanted to cover it.
My news director said, George,
you're not going to cover that.
I'm not going to spend
over time for you on that.
I said, I'm going
to do it on my own.
And I did.
He was my first interview,
and we stayed close
over all these years.
>>HANSEN: Wow.
>>NOORY: And then, we had
him live at a live event,
I did Columbus, Ohio on
Mother's Day several years ago.
He was on the stage with me.
And he died going back to
the airport in Toronto.
>>HANSEN: Oh, it was your event?
>>NOORY: It was my event.
So he was my first
radio interview.
I was the last person
to interview him.
You talk about fate.
>>HANSEN: What a great mind, one
of the few that have dedicated
a large part of their life--
>>NOORY: And he loved it.
>>HANSEN: --to this subject.
>>NOORY: He loved it.
>>HANSEN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Guy has
got a program called
a unified theory
of the paranormal,
and they discuss all the things
about the paranormal phenomena.
You'll like this.
>>SPEAKER: Could there
be a common cause that
explains all paranormal events?
One of the most famous
sustained paranormal experiences
is the Mothman incident of 1966.
For 13 months, Point
Pleasant West Virginia
was plagued with sightings
of a bizarre winged humanoid,
accompanied by mysterious
lights in the sky, animal
mutilations, and other accounts
of paranormal activity.
Journalist John Keel
famously documented
this prolonged period
of unusual events
in his book, "The
Mothman Prophecies,"
which was later made into
a film of the same name.
These simultaneous events
were not new to Keel.
He often wrote of window
areas, specific locations
on our planet, where
paranormal events,
where, far more likely and
even expected, to occur.
For experiences and
believers of the paranormal,
the greatest frustration
often lies in the lack
of abundant physical evidence.
A few landing marks
here, a bit of fur
there, and even the
occasional photograph
don't seem to be enough
to convince the skeptics.
After decades of
researching such cases,
Keel developed an
elegant hypothesis,
which explains the
troublesome disparity
between excessive testimony
and scarce physical evidence.
His book, "The Eighth Tower,"
written at the same time
as "The Mothman
Prophecies," proposes
a sort of unified theory to
explain all paranormal events.
These entities are able
to shift up and down
the electromagnetic spectrum,
appearing and disappearing
as they please.
Keel called this
the superspectrum,
and he referred to the
beings inhabiting it
as ultraterrestrials.
This could explain the variety
of electromagnetic effects
often associated with
paranormal events.
Cars stall, widespread
power outages
occur, radios and
telephones go crazy,
and battery-operated
devices refuse to work.
Clocks and watches
have also been
known to stop in the presence
of UFOs, monsters, and ghosts.
Keel believes these beings
are native to the Earth, which
explains their manifestation
in different forms
throughout the
ages, but that they
inhabit physical dimensions
beyond normal human perception.
This theory fits with
scientific understandings
of how our brains perceive
the world around us.
It is well known that our
senses are only equipped
to pick up a very small
slice of physical activity.
>>NOORY: John Keel is amazing.
>>HANSEN: Yeah.
I had no idea.
I need to read that
book, it looks like.
>>NOORY: He's done a great
job of this field of UFOlogy
to be sure.
>>HANSEN: Yeah.
I often think about
the unified theories
because we have these hotspot
areas, like he discussed,
Skinwalker Ranch.
Marley Woods, there's
a number of rural areas
where it seems like
everything happens.
>>NOORY: There's something
weird about that area.
>>HANSEN: Definitely.
And the fact that
you can, in one day,
literally have a
UFO sighting, you
can have something
poltergeist, you know,
and an animal mutilation.
>>NOORY: It keeps changing.
As you investigate
UFOs, you have
said that many sightings are,
by large, bodies of water.
Tell me about that.
>>HANSEN: So there's
a lot of research
that several different
groups have put together.
And it would seem that our
coastal areas and lakes,
large lakes, there's an
inordinate number of sightings.
And so, when we look at what
the government is now releasing,
these Navy videos.
Both East and West
Coast, and you
talk to the people involved,
the radar images, for example,
in the Nimitz case, we
have a hot spot right
off the coast of
California, where
Catalina Island, all the way
down to Guadalupe in Mexico--
>>NOORY: That's a hot spot.
>>HANSEN: A hot spot
of something going on.
And I've talked to so many
different witnesses, who
have witnessed objects coming
up and going into the water,
both on that side and
then over on the East
Coast, similar things,
including triangles.
And there seems to
be some attraction
to the water from the
objects, whether they're
using it to sound strange,
but as a base, maybe
something under the water.
>>NOORY: Could be.
Could be.
>>HANSEN: Or maybe
they're exploring
some of the marine life or
some attraction to the area.
>>NOORY: What would you say the
percentage of the authenticity
might be on the
cases you look at?
>>HANSEN: I would say--
I rely on what Project Blue
Book assessed was that about 95%
of all of, let's
say, UFO cases, have
some natural explanation, or
misidentification, or a hoax.
>>NOORY: But there's
5% that aren't.
>>HANSEN: There are those 5%.
And when people send
me videos and things,
they're often discouraged
when I can easily tell them
what was going on in the photo.
But if you do that, and you're
diligent with it, what's left
is the gold.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>HANSEN: Right?
>>NOORY: All you
need-- for example, I
used to tell Linda Moulton Howe
about crop formation stories.
And she talked about how so
many of them have been doctored,
made by man.
I said, but, Linda, all you
need is one that wasn't.
That's all.
She says, you're
absolutely right.
>>HANSEN: Yep.
And we think in binary terms.
I think people want to throw
the baby out with the bathwater,
right?
They say, it's either
this way, or it's not.
And in the same thing with
people, sometimes, who
become the greatest hoaxers.
I found that, eventually, there
was something in their life,
where a lot of them had a
very legitimate experience.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HANSEN: And then they
got into fame or money,
and they started inventing
and embellishing things.
>>NOORY: What would you say
is your most interesting case
that you've dealt with?
>>HANSEN: Oh, so many, so many.
>>NOORY: It's hard
to pick one, is it?
>>HANSEN: You choose a subject.
So UFOs, or Bigfoot,
or paranormal, and I
could tell those.
>>NOORY: UFOs.
>>HANSEN: UFOs.
We had a case in the
UK, where a woman
felt as though she had seen
an object across the field
from her kitchen window.
It was hovering.
She went to bed, had
the typical abduction
scenario, very surreal, what
she thought was a dream.
But she was so horrified by it,
that she woke up the next day,
and she eventually tied a string
from her hand to her husband
so that he would wake
up if she was taken.
He said, look--
>>NOORY: They would
play pull them.
>>HANSEN: Like, pulled out.
Yeah, pulled out of bed.
And he said, look, this
is really concerning.
Why don't we set
up a video camera?
So he set up a video
in a room, let it run.
Couple of days or weeks
went by, I can't remember,
and one day, she woke up.
And she said, I think
something happened.
He said, well, I
got to go to work.
You review the tape.
On the video, you see
her form in the bed,
and she's underneath the sheets.
She moves around.
And suddenly, the sheets
look like they dissolved.
I mean, literally flatten out--
>>NOORY: Melt away?
>>HANSEN: --and she's gone.
And then, about 13
minutes passes--
>>NOORY: Is she still there.
>>HANSEN: She's still there.
13 minutes goes by in the
film and, all of a sudden,
the sheets take form again--
>>NOORY: And she's back.
>>HANSEN: She turns
around and is back.
>>NOORY: You can't fake
that on a security camera.
>>HANSEN: It's very
difficult with DVR.
In fact, we went
to JPL, who NASA
contracts for analyzing
these types of videos
for authenticity.
No indication of manipulation.
So it was either the
most strange illusion
you've ever seen, or something
really happened, and we
have to keep the possibility
open that she disappeared.
>>NOORY: What's
your gut tell you?
>>HANSEN: She's
telling the truth.
Her husband and
she, I don't think,
are involved in any type of
hoax as to what happened.
It would have to be the
strangest illusion ever.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>HANSEN: We may have actually
caught something on camera,
where somebody dematerializes.
>>NOORY: A lot of people are
going through abduction cases
and scenarios like that,
and they're not lying.
They may not know exactly
what's happening to them.
But whatever they're saying,
they believe it to be true.
And I think that's important.
It's very important.
>>HANSEN: And in fact,
J. Allen Hynek, I think,
was one of the first
serious researchers
to popularize the idea that
you can interview someone.
You can fully believe
they're telling the truth
and, yet, not conclude
that they were
taken by such and
such extraterrestrial.
Right?
The reality is intact.
And the reality of what
they're telling you
is true, as they perceived it.
And sometimes, that's
as far as you can go.
But it's important
that they be believed.
>>NOORY: These
personal experiences
that you've gone through,
do you feel for the subject
matter of the people?
Do you sometimes
feel sorry for them?
>>HANSEN: I do, quite often.
As you had mentioned, sometimes
there is a prosaic explanation.
There are, of course,
is a higher level
of people suffering
mental health problems.
And some of them latch
on to an abduction
scenario or something, or it
actually could have happened.
But the feelings are real,
and they're plagued by it.
I've seen people who have had
tremendous physical ailments,
losing substantial
weight, becoming very ill,
being hospitalized, stigmatized,
of course, from their friends
and family because
of what's happened.
>>NOORY: Ben, do you come
across an implant case?
>>HANSEN: Quite often.
>>NOORY: They're
weird, aren't they?
>>HANSEN: And since
Dr. Roger Leir left us,
it's hard to find someone
to take his place.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
He was the best.
>>HANSEN: Right?
He looked at it
from a perspective
of not only removing
the objects,
but trying to figure out where
they're transmitting signals.
He'd had enough that he really
dialed in some patterns there.
So when we come
across them, it's
hard to find
doctors who operate.
And then, it's also difficult
because some of them
are in locations--
I had a woman, had one
right behind her ear.
Doctors are not
going to touch that.
She's elderly and
having a surgery.
That would be very,
very dangerous.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
Paola Harris, one of the
great UFO investigators,
Italian-American
investigator, was
on Gaia's "Open Minds,"
talking about the methods
she uses to investigate.
>>PAOLA HARRIS: I
decided to interview him,
had him come to my home.
But any time I interview
and every time I do a story,
I usually--
just think of me
as the "X-files."
I have to pull in a Mulder
because I'm either nervous,
or I want to--
I think it's good to run
information by someone
else who's working with you.
So I asked Antonello Lupino,
who worked for the Customs.
He was a Custom Police
Officer, and he was
with me-- and also ufologists.
And he was with me
during the interview.
And basically, what
the story was--
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Why
were you nervous doing it?
>>HARRIS: Well,
when I film people,
and they're whistleblowers--
a whistleblower.
>>MEREDITH: OK, I
think this is going
to be revealed at the
end of this story.
Go ahead.
>>HARRIS: Yeah, a
whistleblower is--
>>MEREDITH: They're vulnerable.
>>HARRIS: They're vulnerable.
Plus, they're telling
state secrets.
>>MEREDITH: Exactly.
So it can be dangerous.
>>HARRIS: It can
be very dangerous.
>>MEREDITH: So go ahead.
So you start.
>>HARRIS: So I wanted
to get him on camera.
So Antonello brought the camera.
We set it up in my
living room in Rome,
and the apartment was
on the seventh floor.
And as we started the cameras
rolling, and what he said
was that he was part of
a group of officers--
not officers-- of military,
who are doing the testing
of the Bikini Atoll.
I think it was New
Zealand that stopped all
that because the
journalists knew about it,
and they went after them.
And this caused the killing
of all the coral, the fish.
He said, there were three feet
of dead fish on the runway.
And three feet of
dead fish because it
was done in the water,
not to hurt anybody.
But good grief, I mean,
the oceans are alive.
And he said, on two
occasions, he personally
saw a flyover of three
UFOs, on two occasions.
On one occasion, he
jumped in the plane
to go after them
with other people.
And that the plane's whole
navigation system shut down,
and they thought they
were going to crash.
When the UFOs went
over the horizon, then
all the navigation
system came back online.
So I mean, if they
were dangerous--
this is the point I
want to make to people.
If they were out to
kill us, and they're
watching this
craziness, they would
have done something instead
of just present themselves
and, say, here we are.
We're watching your insanity.
>>NOORY: She's right.
She's right.
I mean, if they seriously
wanted to harm us,
they would have done
it a long time ago.
>>HANSEN: They've certainly
had the chance to.
>>NOORY: And there's nothing
we can do to stop it, Ben.
>>HANSEN: No.
No, we have to assume that
they're supremely intelligent
and have technology
far beyond ours.
But there's also the idea
that they may not be just,
of course, one
species, but they all
might have different agendas.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HANSEN: So some
might be malevolent,
and some might be
trying to help us.
>>NOORY: Can we
handle the truth?
>>HANSEN: That is a very
interesting question.
>>NOORY: I feel like Jack
Nicholson on "A Few Good Men."
>>HANSEN: Recently,
I am finishing up
my master's degree.
>>NOORY: In what--
>>HANSEN: Emergency and
disaster management.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>HANSEN: Yeah, at Georgetown.
>>NOORY: Great school.
>>HANSEN: I convinced
them, actually,
to let me do my thesis on
something that I call reality
compromising events.
So for the past six
months or so, I've
been working on this very
idea that the government,
from, at least, the
late 1940s until now,
has had their own kind
of paradigm and thing
they've been working
through on, should we
release the info or not?
>>NOORY: I think
you're right, too.
>>HANSEN: Right?
And now, we're here and we've
got congressional hearings
on it, but can we
handle the truth?
The short answer is it depends.
And my research basically
led me to believe
that there have to be certain
things that would fall in line,
and it's not all dependent
on the crisis planners.
>>NOORY: I think most people,
Ben, would say, I knew it.
I knew it.
>>HANSEN: They might.
They might say that.
However, let me put it this way,
we learned a lot from COVID-19,
a lot about how people react
under stress and crisis, right?
And I believe there's
a threshold point.
And it doesn't take
the majority of people
to panic in order
for us to be thrown
into a worldwide catastrophe.
It only takes a certain
number of people.
So for example, when we
saw people panic buying,
they're buying up toilet
paper and everything.
>>NOORY: Like crazy.
Everything is off the shelves.
>>HANSEN: Right.
Well, not to get too far
into this, but the theory
is what we call
social amplification
of risk and some other things.
It happens that people,
they see others doing it,
we get our media news
sources from social media now
and informal
channels and whatnot.
So what could be
something as simple
as like just using your own
common sense becomes amplified,
and you see--
For example, let's say,
they had a shooting
when ET disclosure is made
and if someone goes out
and creates an act of
violence in public.
And there's supply
chain problems.
And guess what?
Now, nobody feels
safe to go to work.
Nobody feels safe to
go out to the stores.
And we end up in
something much worse
than what happened during COVID.
So do I think we can handle it?
I think most individuals
probably can,
but what happens in society,
as a whole, if we don't
control how that information is
distributed and how it happens.
We could be headed for
a very bad situation.
>>NOORY: Do you think
the mainstream media
is starting to accept this?
>>HANSEN: Absolutely,
and it's wonderful.
It's wonderful to
turn on the news
and see mainstream
media without chuckling
to see senators
and Congress people
actually bringing forth
funding and demanding hearings.
I think, for the most part--
>>NOORY: That's just tremendous.
>>HANSEN: --it's a
great time to be alive.
>>NOORY: Back to your
thesis for a moment.
They are prepared
to accept this?
>>HANSEN: Well, the media, I
think, plays along with it.
The bottom line is profit.
And unfortunately,
if something is--
>>NOORY: And ratings.
Ratings mean profit.
>>HANSEN: Ratings and profit.
If you can scare
people or provide them
good information,
whatever it is,
that's what they're
concerned about.
So what the government needs to
do is have a contingency plan.
And in my research, I
went to FEMA headquarters.
I talked with a lot of
people on the inside.
They do not have, officially,
a contingency plan
specific to ET disclosure.
The closest thing we
have is looking at,
for example, an asteroid strike.
And they do these
tabletop exercises.
They run everyone through it.
What should we do?
How should we get
people together?
>>NOORY: And it's not if.
It's when.
>>HANSEN: It's when.
But the bottom line
is, with ET Disclosure,
we're dealing with something
that is psychological.
We're talking about
reality shifts.
A lot of people have
never considered this.
They're going to go
through some major changes.
>>NOORY: Speaking
of disclosure, Ben,
are we going to ever really
see it in our lifetime?
>>HANSEN: I'm optimistic,
but a number of researchers
who will tweet out,
and they'll say it's
happening in a couple of weeks.
It's happening in
a couple of months.
I really have to
take a step back
and say, well, we've got to
see some major things happen
before that takes place.
>>NOORY: Our dear friend Richard
Dolan was on the program,
talking about disclosure
and the mainstream media.
>>RICHARD DOLAN: And then,
suddenly, in 2017, many things
began to change.
And I think it culminated
with the phenomenal coverage
that we got in the
mainstream media, "New York
Times" and Politico at
the end of the year.
>>NOORY: Oh, huge.
Huge.
>>DOLAN: I think it
shocked everyone.
What's going on?
My short answer, I guess,
is that maybe history
is speeding up a little bit.
The long answer, I'm still
trying to work that one out.
But I think that
we're in an era, where
more and more toothpaste
is coming out of that tube.
And I ask myself, when
will we get to a point
where it becomes an undeniable
momentum on its own?
And maybe we're heading
into that already.
>>NOORY: Steve Bassett from
the Paradigm Research Group
has been pushing for government
disclosure on UFOs for years.
I'm at odds with Steven.
I love the guy, but
I've always told him,
it's not going to
come from government.
What do you think?
>>DOLAN: I go back
and forth on this.
I would say that
I wouldn't expect
an honest voluntary disclosure
from a government source.
And when I think
about it, I don't even
know if it's possible to be.
And I really wonder about this.
How much information does
the government really
have as compared with, maybe,
privatized, highly secret
compartmented organizations?
But having said that,
I do agree with you
that I've never
expected any government
to have a motivation to want
to get in front of this.
And like you, I've
argued with Steve.
Steve is a friend of
mine, and our arguments
go back more than 15,
almost 20 years on this.
He would say, well,
it's going to happen.
He said that in
George W. Bush years.
He said it during
the Obama years.
I've just never been on board.
>>NOORY: He's put together some
great conferences and events.
>>DOLAN: Yes.
>>NOORY: Which would
illustrate what
would happen if
disclosure occurred,
but it's just not
coming for government.
If it happens,
it's going to come
from organizations, groups.
Richard Dolan's a great
investigator, Ben.
>>HANSEN: He is, and I love
Dolan and Bryce Zabel's book
that talks about disclosure
because they bring up
some very important points.
One of those is,
what happens if it
happens on a Friday afternoon?
The White House comes out and
declares everything they know.
Well, I call this the ripping
off the Band-Aid approach.
That would be probably
the most intense.
Because now we've
got to assimilate
all this information, and
you have a government who
has to admit one of two things.
Number one, they
either have to admit
that they know as little
about it as we do,
and they know nothing.
>>NOORY: Or.
>>HANSEN: Or that
they do, and they've
been lying to us, right?
>>NOORY: They don't want to
say they've been lying to us.
>>HANSEN: No, it's
a no-win situation.
Neither one of those are
good messages to communicate.
>>NOORY: Well, they'll come
up with scenario number three,
and that is, this has been going
on since the beginning of time,
but we quite didn't understand
how to present it to you,
so we had to hold back.
>>HANSEN: Yes.
And I think that would be
the best mitigating strategy,
in fact.
I think if they were to come out
in what we call the slow drip
and maybe give us, for example,
talk about Roswell and say,
yes, Roswell happened.
It was extraterrestrial,
and then
don't say anything for
another six months or a year.
And then, release
something else.
But you could shift the blame.
You could say, those
were other times.
We were afraid of panic,
and we were doing the best
that we knew.
And I think you could exonerate
some of our current leaders
because they knew nothing
about those times.
>>NOORY: Several people
disappear off the face
of planet Earth every year.
They're gone.
Nobody knows where they are.
Sure, some of them may have been
murdered, but not that many.
They're gone.
They've disappeared.
What if the ETs are taking
people, taking humans, and just
not bringing them back?
>>HANSEN: It reminds me
of my favorite UFO movie,
"Close Encounters," right?
>>NOORY: Yup, I love it.
>>HANSEN: And down
comes the mothership,
and all the people that have
been taken start coming out.
We find out where they've been.
It is very mysterious.
>>NOORY: But these
aren't coming back.
They're gone.
>>HANSEN: If they
never come back,
and we never find the
remains, then, I'd say,
someone has a lot
of explaining to do,
especially if there's any
truth to the fact that--
and these, to me, are
just rumors at this point,
but has our government
made any a treaty?
Have they been part of
allowing this to happen?
>>NOORY: And maybe
that's another reason
why they can't tell us.
Maybe they know
what's happening,
and they can't say it.
What do you think--
what kind of panic
do you think there would be if
government came out and said,
extraterrestrials are real.
They've been visiting
the planet since you've
been here on the planet.
And they're taking humans
for whatever reason.
We eat them.
Who knows?
The world would go nuts.
>>HANSEN: It would.
And in fact, my thesis, the
research I've been doing,
shows why that would happen.
All of the current research
on panic and human behavior
says there's a
couple of elements.
One of them is, when you
have a lack of ability
to give your consent
to something.
So the voluntariness
of the event.
>>NOORY: Right.
Good point.
>>HANSEN: If it's
not voluntary, then
we tend to feel like the
risk is more elevated, right?
And another thing would be how
quickly that information comes
out, how intense it is,
and how unfamiliar we
are with the risk.
So this is something most
people don't really think about.
But if you came out and
told me, yeah, people
have been abducted, horrible
things have been done,
where can you go to turn for
help or to run away from it?
s That's very intense.
>>NOORY: Ben, how do
people get a hold of you
and track your work?
>>HANSEN: I have my website.
It's just benhansen.com.
>>NOORY: Spell it.
>>HANSEN: H-A-N-S-E-N--
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HANSEN: --.com.
And I keep that updated
with events that I'm doing
and TV shows.
And there's also a place there.
You can find links
to my social media,
if you want to submit
your video or photo,
and we'll take a look at it.
>>NOORY: Ben, thanks, and
keep doing what you're doing.
>>HANSEN: Thank you, George.
Thanks for having me.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
Former FBI agent, who
has turned his career
into investigating the
paranormal and the unusual--
UFOs, ghosts, Bigfoot.
He does it all.
And one day, because of
people like Ben Hansen,
we'll get the answers
we've been looking for.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."